---
layout: post
title: Keep the lights on
bigimg: /img/lamp.jpg
---

Under rapidly changing circumstances at technology, tools & techniques, lean product development approaches and digital world, it has been a real challenge to track the valuable change, not just for enterprises and start-ups also for people who intend to be a front seat driver on their own career path. About 10 years ago we were all discussing which OOP language was better C# or Java? The same discussion still continues, however not as popular as it was a decade ago (!) The digital world is changing, and so does the tech bucket list. And this movement really effects our company, project and career decisions.

I am sure most of us see some tech guys around discussing on a brand new tech, tool or an approach. “Hey, I have read an article last night about a new complex event processing framework invested by Super Dupa Big Brother Inc. It supports not just batch processing, also integrates with … and no overhead, ready to hear what! 10000 times faster...” Wow… And… Sh*t! Another cool (!) complex event processing framework I have to learn? But what about the current one we are working on? I have spent the last 12 months to learn, adopt and implement for our Project Tiny Miny Space 2050 ... Another 6 months for something new to learn? And, then, what will be next… Seems like chicken and egg problem... Whatever it is, the reality is we can’t stop the change and implement every change at this rapidly changing landscape.

But we can adopt the change and keep the lights on for our next big (!) decision to change. When? How? Agility is not just to make quick decisions, so change should be something staged. We should not put our efforts and valuable time trying to learn and implement every new approach. We shouldn’t jump into every lake. It is important to evaluate carefully and regularly, if we are on the path or lost in a rabbit hole. Starting with small increments and low-risk projects is a common approach. Trying a new technology on a project that can handle the risk will reduce the pain. While evaluating if it is worth to adopt a technology, collaborating with all the team members is valuable. Maybe the worst of all is to become a technology freak (!) Check out this list about Big Data Landscape. Even counting the list items is about 5 minutes long. I am sure that, every of those items at the list has a particular and valuable feature. However, value does not reside at implementing a new technology or a new tool. So we need to put the right solutions onto our radar to evaluate them, even if we have already implemented them in a project or dropped them off without using once at all. This is the main reason that we evaluate the changing landscapes regularly and keep the lights on.

I am sure most of us has some tools and techniques to keep the lights on even in our daily life, and certainly they are all valuable. As one of the most important DevOps principles; it is worth to invest on value over tools. But tools are still important for agility. Rather than all those techniques and tools, there is another one which is used by Thoughtworks and it is a really smart way of keeping the lights on; a technology radar.

My intend is not to deep dive into what it is, since it has been already stated by Neal Ford at his article “Build Your Own Technology Radar”. Makes sense to me, not just because it is a practical way of keeping the lights on, also I always have found the insights of Thoughtworks as valuable. As it is stated at the article; a technology radar is a living document to assess the risks and rewards of existing and nascent technologies. I've come to believe you need two radars: one for yourself, to help guide your career decisions, and one for your company, to help restore sanity to purchasing decisions and technology direction. If you intend to implement your own techradar, the software is shared at github as a starting point. I have already started implementing one for my department as well as myself.

> "## Techradar is not a way of how to evaluate things you put on the radar, it helps what to evaluate under current circumstances" 

With a software or not, it is really important to evaluate and consider the changing landscapes regularly. It seems to me that keeping the lights on is not a way of how to evaluate things you put on your own radar, it helps what to evaluate under current circumstances. Answer to question “How?” is another topic that I plan to share at another article based on my experiences, later.

** The company and project names portrayed and stated with double asterisk in this article are fictitious. No identification with those company and project name is intended or should be inferred.
